kernagic
========

Kernagic is a tool for spacing and kerning fonts. It provides a selection of
methods that can be previewed and tuned interactively. 

To fit into a diverse set of workflows; kernagic uses UFO fonts as it's input
- UFO can act as a superset of other formats; and tools like fontforge can be
used for converting to and from it.

Some methods relies on automatically detected stems, if the detected stems
work poorly with your font or you want to override spacing decisions, you can
insert your own stems by clicking in the preview; override stems are
persistent across saves of the UFO.

When a good setting is found it can be stored back into the UFO file being
edited; this shifts the x coordinates of glyphs, and writes a new advance
value.

For help about the commandline, kernagic --help is the entry-point for further
documentation.

The following subsections documents the different spacing modes in kernagic

Todo:
  add parameters for stem-detector
  add collision avoidance to methods (use kerning?)
  improve discoverability of ui
  add removal of user stems
  harmonize commandline
  generate png output
  pan preview
  multiline wrapping preview text

gap
---

The gap method allows specifying the gap to use between stems in neighbouring
glyphs. (The resulting advance is a multiple of period.)

rythm
-----

Rythm does spacing of the first stem in glyphs. The rythm being generated can
be controlled in terms of the rythms period. And an offset in rythm units to
use to the first stem.

Snaps the first stem of each glyph into a rythm. With the stem determined
either automatically or with a manual override. The /offset/ provides a
multiple of the rythm to use as an offset to the edge of the glyph.
. (XXX: improve right side handling, for now it just snaps ink to rythm)


rainnesance cadence table
-------------------------

This method uses a predefined spacing table; with encoded knowledge of
the glyphs morphologies. It works best on traditional rainessance fonts
with classic proportions.

Assumes that the glyphs have been designed with proportions similar to
rainessance fonts. And automatically prepares a fitting.

inkbounds
---------
simplest possible fallback spacer

